Project: DREAM Olfaction Prediction Challenge; data and description: https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn2811262/wiki/78375

Following data sets were downloaded: 
1. "TrainSet.txt"
2. "LBs1.txt" : leaderboard data: we can use this data as test data set
2. "molecular_descriptors_data.txt"

Very short description of the project:
We have:  
*different molecules (338 in train; 69 in leaderboard that will be used as test)
*different descriptors (19; e.g. 'BAKERY', 'SWEET', 'FRUIT', 'FISH'), 
*and different individuals (49). 
Each individual has scored a molecule on a specific descriptor with a value between 0 and 100. We simplified the problem and assigned values 1 (individual detects a descriptor) and 0 (no detection). From a simple analysis see "data.ipynb", we see that different individuals strongly disagree. We processed data sets in "data.ipynb" for two different sub-projects.

Sub-project 1.
Goal: predict whether individual number i detects in molecule j a descriptor k
"d1_train" : compound x individual x descriptor (each triple represents a positive detection) 
"d1_test" : compound x individual x descriptor (each triple represents a positive detection; if a descriptor is not mentioned, it is condidered negative)

Sub-project 2.
Here, an average flavour profile is constructed for each compound to marginalize the disagreements between the different individuals. Goal: predict whether molecule j is detected a descriptor k, on average.
"d2_train" : compound x descriptor (each pair represents a positive detection) 
"d2_test" : compound x descriptor (each pair represents a positive detection; if a descriptor is not mentioned, it is condidered negative)

Encoding. For the individuals and descriptors, we can generate random vectors. For the molecules, we suggest using molecular information, in the following files.

Molecule descriptors:
"Dragon" : list of more than 4500 chemical features, generated by a commercial software package known as Dragon. I standard scaled them. 
"Smiles" : the smiles strings
"Fingerprints" : molecular fingerprints: Morgan
All these information files can be mapped to HD by random projection, i.e., simple matrix mutliplication with a random matrix or by k-mer encoding for the smiles strings.



